Adds documentation to Devfile reference page (#5762)
redhat-developer/odo: docs/website/versioned_docs/version-3.0.0/development/devfile.md

---
title: Devfile Reference
sidebar_position: 30
---

## Description

### Overview

> We implement the [Devfile 2.2.0 reference](https://devfile.io/docs/devfile/2.2.0/user-guide/api-reference/) in `odo`.

Reviewer: Is that really true? I am under an impression that odo even works with 2.0.0 and 2.1.0 besides working with 2.2.0. 🤔

> Below is `odo`-specific examples regarding the Devfile reference. Everything we have listed below is implemented in the current version of `odo`.

Reviewer: >  Below is `odo`-specific examples 

Either `s/is/are` or `s/examples/example`.

This API Reference uses examples and snippets to help you create your own `devfile.yaml` file for your project.

For this reference, we use one singular (working) Node.js example which can be ran on your own environment.

### Why Devfile?

### How `odo` Creates Resources from Devfile

### File Synchronization

> ### What Commands are Executed in Dev or Deploy

Reviewer: Are you going to expand on these in this PR or in a later one?

Author: Yup! You just reviewed it too early (which is okay!) thank you for all the changes.

---
title: Devfile Reference
sidebar_position: 30
---

## Description

### Overview

We implement the latest [Devfile 2.2.0 reference](https://devfile.io/docs/devfile/2.2.0/user-guide/api-reference/) in `odo`.

Below are `odo`-specific examples regarding the Devfile reference. Everything we have listed below is implemented in the current version of `odo`.

This API Reference uses examples and snippets to help you create your own `devfile.yaml` file for your project.

For this reference, we use one singular (working) Node.js example which can be ran from your own environment.

### How `odo` Creates Resources from Devfile

When `odo dev` is ran, `odo` creates the following Kubernetes resources from `container` (component) and `exec` (command) sections of the Devfile:
* Deployment for running the containers

> * Service for accessability 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Service for accessibility 
```

#### Hot Reloading

`hotReloadCapable` is a special boolean within `exec` that allows you to specify if a framework is "hot reloadable".

If set to `true`, the container won't be restarted as the framework will handle file changes on its own.

#### Full Example

```yaml
commands:
  - exec:
      commandLine: yarn dev
      component: runtime
      group:
        isDefault: true
        kind: run
      hotReloadCapable: true
      workingDir: ${PROJECT_SOURCE}
    id: build
```

### What Commands are Executed in Dev or Deploy

Each command has a group `kind`:

```yaml
- exec:
    commandLine: npm start
    component: runtime
    group:
      isDefault: true
      kind: run
    workingDir: ${PROJECT_SOURCE}
  id: run
```

When `odo dev` is executed, we use: build, run, test and debug.

These commands are typically ran within the `container` component that has been defined.

TODO: When are the debug, test, run and build commands run? Should I just like.. #1 is build, then #2 is test (which isn't implemented), then #3 is run? #4 is debug but when you pass in --debug to `odo dev`? Should I do that?
Ex.
The order in which the commands are ran for `odo dev` are:

> 1. `build`: We first build the necessary parts of the container for the application to correctly run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
0. the sources are synchronized to the container
1. `build`: We build the program from the sources
```

2. `test`: NOT YET IMPLEMENTED?
3. `run`: The application is ran within the container
4. `debug`: This is ran when `odo dev --debug` is executed

When `odo deploy` is executed, we use: deploy.

> These commands are typically tied to Kubernetes or OpenShift inline resources. They are defined as a component. However, you can use `container` or `image` components as well under the deploy group.

Reviewer 2: You can also talk about building an image with an Image component, that will be used in some Kubernetes resource defined in Kubernetes component
